
Report of Col. Edward F. Jones, Sixth Massachusetts Militia.

Hdqrs. 6th Eegiment, 3d Brig., 2d Div., M. V. M., 
Capitol, Washington, April 22, 1861.
In accordance with Special Orders, No. 6, I proceeded with my command towards the city of Washington, leaving Boston on the evening of the 17th April, arrived in New York on the morning of the 18th, and proceeded to Philadelphia, reaching that place on the same evening.

On our way John Brady, of Company H, Lowell, was taken insane, and deeming it unsafe to have him accompany the regiment, 114ft him at Delanco, N. J., with J. C. Buck, with directions that he should telegraph Mayor Sargent, of Lowell, as • to the disposition of him, and we proceeded thence to Baltimore, reaching that place at noon on the 19th. After leaving Philadelphia I received intimation that our passage through the city of Baltimore would be resisted. I caused ammunition to be distributed and arms loaded, and went personally through the cars, and issued the following order, viz:
	The regiment will march through Baltimore in column of sections, arms at will. You will undoubtedly be insulted, abused, and, perhaps, assaulted, to which you must pay no attention whatever, but march with your faces square to the front, and pay no attention to the mob, even if they throw stones, bricks, or other missiles; but if you are fired upon and any one of you is hit, your officers will order you to fire. Do not fire into any promiscuous crowds, but select any man whom you may see aiming at you, and be sure you drop him.

Reaching Baltimore, horses were attached the instant that the locomotive was detached, and the cars were driven at a rapid pace across the city. After the cars containing seven companies had reached the Washington depot the track behind them was barricaded, and the cars containing band and the following companies, viz: Company C, of Lowell, Captain Follansbee; Company D, of Lowell, Captain Hart; Company I, of Lawrence, Captain Pickering, and Company L, of Stone-ham, Captain Dike, were vacated, and they proceeded but a short distance before they were furiously attacked by a shower of missiles, which came faster as they advanced. They increased their steps to double-quick, which seemed to infuriate the mob, as it evidently impressed the mob with the idea that the soldiers dared not Are or had no ammunition, and pistol-shots were numerously fired into the ranks, and one soldier fell dead. The order “Fire” was given, and it was executed. In consequence, several of the mob fell, and the soldiers again advanced hastily. The mayor of Baltimore placed himself at the head of the column beside Captain Follansbee, and proceeded with them a short distance, assuring him that he would protect them, and begging him hot to let the men fire; but the mayor’s patience was soon exhausted, and he seized a musket from the hands of one of the men and killed a man therewith, and a policeman, who was* in advance of the column, also shot a man with a revolver.

They at last reached the cars, and they started immediately for Washington. On going through the train I found there were about one hundred and thirty missing, including the band and field music. Our baggage was seized, and we have not as yet been able to recover any of it. 1 have found it very difficult to get reliable information in regard to the killed and wounded, but believe there were only three killed, viz:
James Keenan, Company L, Stoneham.
Daniel Stevens, Company D, Lowell.
Edward Coburn, Company D, Lowell.

Wounded.
Capt. J. H. Dike, Stoneham, dangerous 5 doing well.
Andrew Bobbins, Stoneham, dangerous; doing well.
S. H. Keedham, Lawrence, dangerous; doing well.
Michael Green, Lawrence; flesh wound.
D.	B. Tyler, Lowell; condition unknown.
Edwin Colley, Lowell; condition unknown.
H. W. Danforth, Stoneham; condition unknown.
William B. Patch, Lowell; condition unknown.
(Note.—The list in this letter is, of course, inaccurate. James Keenan is a cripple. Sumner H. Needham, of Lawrence, and Addison O. Whitney and Luther C. Ladd, of Lowell, were the killed.—Adjutant-General of Massachusetts. October 23, 1874.)
Captain Dike is in the hands of some brother Masons, and to the Order he owes his life. The others are supposed to be at Baltimore Infirmary.

The following were brought with us and sent to the hospital here:
Gordon Beed, Company A; since discharged.
Alonzo Joy, Company B ; doing well.
G. G. Durrell, Company I; since discharged.
Victor Dengras, Company I; doing well.
W. G. Withington, Company D; since discharged.
W. H. Young, Company L; doing well.
Warren Holden, Company L; doing well.
Maurice Mead, Company L; doing well.
George Alexander, Cpmpany D; doing well.
C. L. Gill, Company L; doing well.
Charles Stinson, Company C ; doing well.
J. M. Moore, Company D; since discharged.
J. W. Pennell, Company L; doing well.
E. A. Perry, Company L; since discharged.
William G. Butterfield, Company L; doing well.
Stephen Flanders, Company L; doing well.
J. W. Kimpton, Company L; doing well.
John Fortier, Company L; doing well.
C. H. Chandler, Company D; doing well.
~ S. S. Johnson, Company L; since discharged.
> IJepry I)ik%rCompai?y L ; doing well.
..•Lit
Daniel Brown, Company L; doing well.
George Calvin, Company C; doing well.
H.	Gardner, Company C ; doing well.
S. L. Colley, Company L ; doing well.
W. I). Gourley, Company C; doing well.
John Swett, Company A ; doing well.
W. H. Lamson, Company D 5 doing well.
G. W. Lovering, Company D; doing well.
William M. Holden, Company C; doing well.

As the men went into the cars I caused the blinds to the cars to be closed, and took every precaution to prevent any shadow of offense to the people of Baltimore; but still the stones flew thick and fast into the train, and it was with the utmost difficulty that I could prevent the troops from leaving the cars and revenging the death of their comrades.
After a volley of stones some one of the soldiers fired and killed a Mr. Davis, who I have since ascertained by reliable witnesses threw a stone into Ihe car; yet that did not justify the firing at him, but the men were infuriated beyond control. On reaching Washington we were quartered at the Capitol, in the Senate Chamber, and are all in good health and spirits.
I have made every effort to get possession of the bodies of our comrades, but have not yet succeeded. Should I succeed I shall forward them to Boston, if practicable ; otherwise shall avail myself of a kind offer of George Woods, esq., who has offered me a prominent lot in the Congressional burying-ground for the purpose of interment.
We were this day mustered into the United States service, and will forward the rolls at first opportunity after verification.

EDWARD F. JONES,
Colonel Sixth Regiment, M. V,. M.7 in service of United States.


Brigade Maj. William H. Clemence.



UUID: 213e368e-85b0-4d8f-83f7-f0f4ee5fdc34