No. 1.
Report of Capt 8. W. Fisk, Crescent Rifles, transmitted by Major Rightor and Brigadier-General Magruder, C. 8. Army.
Young5s Mills, Va., July 5,1861.
Sir: A detachment of men, consisting of one hundred infantry, one howitzer, and about fifteen or twenty cavalry, left last night, about midnight, under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Dreux. We advanced in the direction of Newport News, and took post in the woods, near Curtis5 farm, near the road, as shown in diagram annexed.* We were ordered to lie in ambush. The vedettes soon after came in and announced the approach of a body of cavalry one hundred strong. Colonel Dreux5s orders were that they should closely conceal their persons and weapons, and permit the enemy to cross the road on our left and somewhat beyond the left of our line, and that no one should fire before he himself should give the order, after they had advanced, as above. A few of our infantry scouts had previously been sent into the woods, on our left, to observe the approach of the enemy and ascertain if they were enemies. In a few moments after sending out the scouts, Colonel D. said, “They are coming!55 addressing me. Whereupon I took my post a few paces from him, on his right, but not a word was said by him to intimate that he expected the approach of any but cavalry. Notwithstanding Colonel Dreux5s and my own positive order to the men not to fire, one or two shots having been exchanged between the scouts and the enemy, several of the men on the left began also to fire. Yery soon after I was informed that Colonel Dreux was wounded. This was about half an hour after daybreak. Being obliged to direct my attenton to our line of infantry, and still, according to the information I had received from Colonel D., of expecting cavalry, I pursued or carried out his original intention, and, in obedience to his order, not to give the command to fire until their column had passed in front of us. This was, however, but for a moment, and their column not passing our front, as expected, and the enemy being scarcely recognizable, except by the occasional flash of their arms when discharged, finding that they still remained on our left, in order to face towards them and enable us to charge, I gave the order, u Left into line, wheel,55 which, as far as I could observe, was well and promptly executed. When we wheeled into the road the enemy had disappeared or fled. About the time that this movement was executed the horses attached to the howitzer, being said to have taken fright, ran oif with the gun with great violence down the road, creating considerable confusion on our right, which was soon, however, remedied. Having remained near the scene of action long enough to bring off our wounded, we retired in good order, no possibility of carrying out the surprise originally intended by Colonel Dreux longer
* Not found.

## p. 189 (#205) ############################################

﻿Chap. IX.]	SKIRMISH NEAR NEWPORT NEWS, YA.	189
existing, and being in the neighborhood of the large forces of the enemy, from whom they could readily be re-enforced.
I regret deeply to report the death of our gallant and able commander, Lieutenant-Colonel Dreux, and of Private Stephen Hackett, of the Shreveport Grays. In addition, I report Private Buford, of the Crescent Rifles, slightly wounded in the head. Our position in ambush, and the sudden disappearance of the enemy, made it impossible for me to estimate the numbers of the latter with any approach to accuracy.
Both officers and men of the infantry, upon whom my attention was almost entirely bestowed for the two or three moments during which the command devolved on me, behaved with coolness. Three of the enemy are believed to be killed or wounded.
S. W. FISK,
Captain, Commanding Crescent Rifles.
Major Right or, Louisiana Battalion.
["Indorsements.]
Young’s Mills, Va., July 5,1861.
Brig. Gen. J. B. Magruder:
. Sir: I have received your dispatch, and in conformity with your instructions I send you the above detailed account of the affair, drawn up by Captain Fisk, of the Crescent Rifles. The bodies of the deceased are laid out in a little church near this place. Lieutenant-Colonel Dreux fell last evening about 10 o’clock, leaving me in command of the battalion. Please send me full instructions, and let me know whether the cavalry force stationed here is under my command. I have not the remotest idea of their whereabouts at this moment, and, in case of necessity, I have no means of dispatching you a courier.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N. H. RIGHTOR,
Major, Commanding Louisiana Battalion.
Respectfully referred to Major-General Lee, commanding, with the following remarks:
Sir : I had left Lieutenant-Colonel Dreux in command at Lowery’s Mill on the morning before the skirmish, and had myself gone with a larger force to the York road, as the enemy had crossed Hampton Creek. Late that night I learned, for the first time, at Bartlett’s, of the expedition, and the next morning of the death of its gallant leader. I since ascertained that the whole of the enemy’s force was about four hundred. The enemy fled. Our men occupied the field, and very deliberately took off their killed and wounded. A war steamer, in the afternoon, came up the river and threw shells into the wood where the affair happened.*
J. B. MAGRUDER, Brigadier-General) Commanding.